# Introduction

## Motivation

To date, just six out of ten people around the globe have access to the internet. In today's fast paced digital world, being offline excludes individuals from large parts of social and economic life. The capabilities of the internet surmount mere communication, as the internet grants access to global knowledge, political participation and new economic arenas. The world wide web is widely understood as a crucial backbone to human and economic development. Therefore Giga Initiative, originated by the International Telecommunication Union (ITU) and UNICEF, has set its goal to connect every school to the internet by 2030. 

Giving students the opportunity to access and explore the internet prevents transferring inequalities to the future, as basic online knowledge and skills are essential to participate and thrive in our globalized world. In addition, schools often serve as community hubs for the entire population. They internet connectivity provided by a school is therefore capable of helping an entire community in their economic development. Using the internet necessarily requires an online device and electricity, however individuals might not have the resources for this investment. Being able to use a school's internet devices can yield basic connectivity for a large number of people.

Nevertheless, connecting schools in random order (e.g. from A to Z) does not allocate resources where they are most needed or in the most efficient manner. Connecting schools that are most visible or apply for a connection could potentially even aggravate disparities within a country since offline communities are typically hard-to-target or even identify.  Therefore, our project aims to provide a reasonable priorization mechanism to determine which school's connection would positively affect the largest number of individuals. 

## Use Case

Our project has multiple objectives. First, we aim to determine the share of households/individuals with internet connectivity around a school. Internet connectivity in this instance is defined as any ability to get online. This includes both broadband and mobile internet connection. It also means that individuals must have devices that can connect to the internet. An absence of any of these things would result in an individual or household who is not connected.

The next objective is taking the absolute population number around the school in order to estimate the offline population around a school. We can then provide a list of all schools prioritized by the ones who most require internet access and have the highest amount of people that would benefit. Possibly even the feasability of connection could be regarded in this process, as previous school location databases have had information on computer availability in a school. It should be easier to provide schools that already have electricity and computers with access to the internet.

Our third objective, and one which was requested by ITU, is to aggregate our understanding of internet connectivity on a school level up to a country level. While this might already exist for many countries, an national level aggregation will be helpful in countries where there are currently no surveys or established statistics on internet connectivity. Furthermore, an prediction from a robust and generalizable model has the potential to be even more accurate or more complete than a national survey. Our model can establish a baseline metric for a country and build a greater understanding of countries that have lower or high internet connectivity. The geographical nature of analysis also makes it possible to detect regional and local differences within countries themselves.

Ultimately, we are contributing to the field of offline population research as well as global human development. Our model and approach offers fruitful insights into which features and models are most efficient in predicting internet connectivity. Hopefully, our results can be used by researchers and organizations. Within this site, you will find a documentation of our process and analysis as well as a discussion of our findings. Our aim is for this to be as reproducible as possible for other countries and we hope that it can be used for building a greater understanding of internet connectivity. While we link to scripts throughout, a full collection of scripts and documentation can be cloned via the GitHub repository [here](link). 